MANUAL.md, before:

# maunal installation, configuration and upgrade

## .dotfiles.debian.core

First, see [.dotfiles.debian.core/MANUAL.md](.dotfiles.debian.core/MANUAL.md).

## vscode

After installing vscode(`apt install <vscode>.deb`), edit code shell file (`vi $(which code)`). **root** user need to specify `--user-data-dir` option, and this edition automatically apply it for convenience.

Add `CAN_LAUNCH_AS_ROOT=1` on top. Add `--user-data-dir=$HOME/.config/vscode` on last of bottom. refer [examples/code](examples/code).

```bash
# ...
CAN_LAUNCH_AS_ROOT=1
# ...
ELECTRON_RUN_AS_NODE=1 "$ELECTRON" "$CLI" "$@" --user-data-dir=$HOME/.config/vscode
# ...
```

## execute apps with non-root user

Some apps does not allow running it with **root**. Others force using unsafe options(e.g. `--no-sandbox` of _google-chrome_). To prevent this, use non-root user. Non-root user named **kali** is created through [others/kali.sh](others/kali.sh). Basic workaround is like below.

```bash
xhost si:localuser:kali # this can be called only once after system booting.
sudo -u kali -H <app> <--options>
```

So, the strategy is like below. 

1. let the xhost command executed automatically on booting. (See [#xhost](#xhost))
2. change Exec on .desktop files(on **/usr/share/applications** or `$HOME`**/.local/share/applications**). (See below sections)
3. set cli command aliases. ([oh-my-zsh/aliases.zsh])

### xhost

`xhost si:localuser:kali` is executed on system booting thanks to [others/init.sh](others/init.sh), which would be copied into **/etc/profile.d** by [install.sh](install.sh).

### google-chrome

Refer [examples/google-chrome.desktop](examples/google-chrome.desktop). Use alias `chrome` instead of `google-chrome`

```bash
# there are total 3 different Execs
# ...
#Exec=/usr/bin/google-chrome-stable %U # change this like the line below
Exec=sudo -u kali -H /usr/bin/google-chrome-stable %U
# ...
```

### torbrowser-launcher.sh

Refer [examples/torbrowser.desktop](examples/torbrowser.desktop). Use alias `tor_` instead of `torbrowser-launcher`

## sync oh-my-zsh

```bash
bash oh-my-zsh.sync.sh
```

## upgrade

```bash
bash upgrade.sh
```

## resolve bugs

Apps installed through snap sometime doesn't start. `snapr`, which is defined in [oh-my-zsh/aliases.zsh](oh-my-zsh/aliases.zsh), temporarily resolves the bug only until shutting down the system.

Commit message:

add aliases; add app-image-launcher on MANUAL.md

MANUAL.md, after:

# maunal installation, configuration and upgrade

## .dotfiles.debian.core

First, see [.dotfiles.debian.core/MANUAL.md](.dotfiles.debian.core/MANUAL.md).

## vscode

After installing vscode(`apt install <vscode>.deb`), edit code shell file (`vi $(which code)`). **root** user need to specify `--user-data-dir` option, and this edition automatically apply it for convenience.

Add `CAN_LAUNCH_AS_ROOT=1` on top. Add `--user-data-dir=$HOME/.config/vscode` on last of bottom. refer [examples/code](examples/code).

```bash
# ...
CAN_LAUNCH_AS_ROOT=1
# ...
ELECTRON_RUN_AS_NODE=1 "$ELECTRON" "$CLI" "$@" --user-data-dir=$HOME/.config/vscode
# ...
```

## app image launcher

Download it from [here](https://github.com/TheAssassin/AppImageLauncher) if it's not preinstalled

## execute apps with non-root user

Some apps does not allow running it with **root**. Others force using unsafe options(e.g. `--no-sandbox` of _google-chrome_). To prevent this, use non-root user. Non-root user named **kali** is created through [others/kali.sh](others/kali.sh). Basic workaround is like below.

```bash
xhost si:localuser:kali # this can be called only once after system booting.
sudo -u kali -H <app> <--options>
```

So, the strategy is like below. 

1. let the xhost command executed automatically on booting. (See [#xhost](#xhost))
2. change Exec on .desktop files(on **/usr/share/applications** or `$HOME`**/.local/share/applications**). (See below sections)
3. set cli command aliases. ([oh-my-zsh/aliases.zsh])

### xhost

`xhost si:localuser:kali` is executed on system booting thanks to [others/init.sh](others/init.sh), which would be copied into **/etc/profile.d** by [install.sh](install.sh).

### google-chrome

Refer [examples/google-chrome.desktop](examples/google-chrome.desktop). Use alias `chrome` instead of `google-chrome`

```bash
# there are total 3 different Execs
# ...
#Exec=/usr/bin/google-chrome-stable %U # change this like the line below
Exec=sudo -u kali -H /usr/bin/google-chrome-stable %U
# ...
```

### torbrowser-launcher.sh

Refer [examples/torbrowser.desktop](examples/torbrowser.desktop). Use alias `tor_` instead of `torbrowser-launcher`

## sync oh-my-zsh

```bash
bash oh-my-zsh.sync.sh
```

## upgrade

```bash
bash upgrade.sh
```

## resolve bugs

Apps installed through snap sometime doesn't start. `snapr`, which is defined in [oh-my-zsh/aliases.zsh](oh-my-zsh/aliases.zsh), temporarily resolves the bug only until shutting down the system.
